Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans.A programming language is a formal language that specifies a set of instructions that can be used to produce various kinds of output.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans.JDK java development kit. components

What is IDE?
Ans.IDE  integrated develop environment *must have jdk to use java

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans.IntelliJ, Eclipse

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans.1.editor 2. source code 3. java compiler 4. byte codes 5. jvm 6. operating system

what is class?
Ans.Blueprint of an object

What is object?
Ans.an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans.Main method is the entry point of a Java application

Why main is static?
Ans.The main method must be declared public, static and void in Java otherwise, JVM will not able to run Java program.
Keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans. Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
Ans. A constructor is a special method of a class or structure in object-oriented programming that initializes an object of that type.
A constructor is an instance method that usually has the same name as the class, and can be used to set the values of
the members of an object, either to default or to user-defined values.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be used to refer
instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor.
It can be passed as an argument in the method call.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









